---
layout: page
title: PH 567
description: Elective
image: 
nav-menu: false
show_tile: false
---

<!-- Main -->
<div id="main" class="alt">

<!-- One -->
<section id="one">
	<div class="inner">
		<header class="major">
			<h3>PH 567: Non Linear Dynamics.
             <br> Prof. Amitabha Nandi</h3>
		</header>

<h4> Prerequisite</h4>
<p>Calculus, Linear Algebra, Ordinary Differential Equations</p>

<h4> Course Content</h4>
<p>1D and 2D systems, Index theory, Limit cycles, Bifurcations, Lorenz and Rossler systems, Chaos theory, Fractals, Logistic map and Universality, Renormalization Group flows, Invariant measures</p>

<h4> Books</h4>
<p>"1. Non Linear Dynamics and Chaos - Steven H. Strogatz (Main reference)
2. Chaos and Nonlinear Dynamics: An Introduction for Scientists and Engineers - Robert. C. Hilborn
3. Deterministic Chaos - H.G Schuster and W. Just"</p>

<h4>Lectures</h4>
<p>"Since it was an online semester, the lectures were recorded and uploaded in Moodle. There were additional weekly interaction sessions with the instructor, where he would revise the concepts, solve doubts and discuss problems. However, due to declining attendance in the live sessions, the policy of uploading recorded lectures was dropped towards the end of the course and the remaining lectures were conducted live. <br>

The lecture content closely followed the book by Strogatz and the explanations were clear with sufficient rigour. Lecture notes were provided along with the uploaded lectures. The live sessions were fun and interactive, and the professor was very enthusiastic during the discussions. "</p>

<h4> Assignments, Exams and Grading</h4>
<p>"Problem sets were provided, but there were ungraded. <br>

There were weekly lecture quizzes (10%), short quizzes (20%), group project (20%), midsem (20%) and endsem (30%). <br>

For the group project, a research paper based on particular topic(s) related to the course content was allotted to each group. The groups had to present the results of the papers and also submit a project report. <br>

The questions asked in exams (quizzes, midsem and endsem) required critical thinking and a thorough understanding of the course content to solve them. Solving problems from the problem sets and Strogatz certainly gives an edge in attempting the exams.<br>

The grading was standard with a large number of ABs and BBs. However, only 2 AAs were awarded, which isn't surprising. "</p>

<h4> Tips</h4>
<p>Keeping up to date with the lectures is essential since a diverse set of topics are covered. Reading Strogatz and solving problems from the problem sets definitely helps. </p>

<!-- Content -->
