---
layout: post
title: Prof. Ramadevi
description: Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet
image: assets/images/pr.jpeg
nav-menu: false
show_tile: false
---

Professor Ramadevi caption

<hr>

<b><i>1. How exactly is mathematical physics, in particular the work you do, connected with physical 
observables and experiments? Are you ever worried about the fact that your research may be 'too 
  abstract' and not have any 'practical value'? </i></b>

Mathematics is definitely a quantitative language useful to validate some of the experimental results.
For instance, the beauty of Nature is encoded elegantly by symmetries. This leads us study complex 
systems using group theory tools. I have tried to share my perspective in my group theory course. 
Sometimes there are situations where we put forth certain postulates and work out the subsequent 
results purely following logical steps. This may appear `too abstract’ but we think over those results and 
aim to give a practical/experimental validation. For instance, Dirac’s theory led to negative energy 
electrons but interpreted as positive energy positrons.

<b><i>2. How do you balance trying to see what the math and calculations are telling you, and your own 
physical intuition? How does one develop a strong intuition? </i></b>
During the last three decades, I have been working on interesting research developments. Particularly 
attempted some challenging open problems in knot theory and three manifolds using the tools of 
quantum field theory and string theory. This experience as well as interactions with famous mathematical 
physicists in the world has played important role in developing strong intuition. 

<b><i>3. How was your PhD experience, what did you learn from it? Did a PhD in mathematics give you a 
different outlook toward physics, and how so? </i></b>
As mentioned earlier, my PhD was in the mathematics-physics interface using the tools of theoretical 
physics. One of useful tips which I learnt from my PhD advisor is to calibrate the abstract notations for 
simple physical systems. Such an approach will give clarity and meaning to every mathematical step. Let 
me share an incident in this context.
During my PhD days, I wrote a program in mathematica which ran for three days. Finally, obtained the 
result in polynomial. I was thrilled and confident that the result is new leading to a publication. 
Unfortunately, my professor did a litmus test for simple special cases and said that the polynomial result is 
wrong. That’s when I realised that I have to do all the simple checks or calibrations before jumping 
around that the results are new.
I do try to implement some of these experiences while teaching courses. 

<b><i>4. What made you pursue a career in academia, and what is your opinion regarding getting into 
industry after a PhD? How and when did you know that "this is what I love, and want to pursue ahead", 
since, it is said, to join academia, one must be extremely passionate and sure? </i></b>
From my school days, I enjoyed mathematics and physics. This enjoyment and passion made me pursue 
BSc and MSc degree in Physics. Some of the interesting electives which I credited during MSc inspired me 
to take up PhD in theoretical physics. My parents did not interfere and encouraged me to go for higher 
studies in my passionate field. This is definitely a very important factor which helped me to do my best in 
research and pursue a career in academia. 
If your research involves industry collaborations, then you could choose industry jobs after PhD. This 
depends on your expertise and interests. 

<b><i>5. How did you choose a subdomain in the vast field of maths and physics to pursue your career in? 
What made you choose topological strings, and super symmetry as your field of study? </i></b>
When I entered PhD program, we had course work in the first year. I decided to interact with professors 
and learn more about the research works before choosing my PhD topic. As a part of one year project, I 
got interested to work on ` knot invariants and Chern-Simons field theory ‘. While working on this project, 
I got involved with many open research problems. This naturally led me to choose the subdomain for my 
research. From those young days, I have been working on the interconnections of knot theory from
topological strings, supersymmetry etc.

<b><i>6. If not a scientist, what other profession would you have taken?</i></b>
Don’t know. I definitely wanted to teach and do research. I would have tried my best.

<b><i>7. Despite your interests being in mathematical physics, which involves quite a lot of rigor, your 
teaching is intuition based. What's your philosophy behind teaching? </i></b>
I always think about the background and level of my students and plan my lectures accordingly. 
Particularly, I try to pitch my teaching style so that the difficult concepts are understandable by most 
of the students. The whole class is alert and actively participate in classroom discussions when I 
compare and contrast intuition and mathematical rigor. Specifically, connecting the mathematical 
rigor to the known concepts for simple systems is the path I follow. 

<b><i>8. In the courses you teach you often put in extra efforts for people who struggle/aren't interested. 
How did you develop this methodology, and how are you so patient? </i></b>
 Everyone is bright is the philosophy I follow. It could be due to some personal or medical reasons that 
they are not able to cope or concentrate in the course. So, I try my level best to reach out such students 
through student mentor so that they learn the concepts well. A class with all AA grades with my 
continuous semester evaluation plus exams is what I aim for. Young citizens of the country must be 
trained well. So, I listen to every student query and give advice. 

<b><i>9. While choosing an area of research, are you ever worried about whether anything 
meaningful/worthwhile will emerge at the end, and are you afraid of dead ends? </i></b>
 This is true for any decisions we make. Outcomes may be different. We need to embark on challenging 
problems and work hard with complete involvement. There are days I will feel low seeing no sign of 
results for the problem. Always remember that the experiences gained in the whole process makes us 
stronger to attack other research problems. 
  
<b><i>10. What is it like to attend international conferences and meet scientists from all over the world?</i></b>
 I have interacted with Stephen Hawking, Gerard `t Hooft, Edward Witten and many more famous 
scientists in international conferences. Really inspired with their working style. 

<b><i>11. Oftentimes most students from the IITs avoid higher studies in India. What is your opinion on 
studies abroad? </i></b>
Each place has advantages and disadvantages. I applied to all places and took the best available offer.
I would suggest to follow your passion and apply to places. 
  
<b><i>12. As UGs, how should we prepare for a career in research? Are projects a better for learning or 
should we stick to learning basic & advanced concepts from books? </i></b>
Some students will have interests in industrial jobs, management, IT, start-up, research etc. I suggest you 
listen to your inner self and design the preparation accordingly. There is no specific path. You are provided 
with all possible opportunities and the students can choose as per their interests.
  
<b><i>13. Why does your attendance sheet have a list of CPI? </i></b>
Is that so? I will delete in future. I had no intention of including CPI.
  
<b><i>14. What is your favourite place in the institute? </i></b>
I enjoy the lake view at Devi temple and try to visit once a week and meditate for 20 minutes in that 
blissful environ. 
  
<b><i>15. The life of an academic is hectic, with this in mind how has your personal life flourished in wake of 
the same?</i></b>
Balancing career and personal life is a challenge to every person in any field. Doing yoga, meditation and 
sports will provide a good investment to handle them in calm and smooth fashion. So, please do inculcate 
these activities also in your life. 
Health must be given the top priority. Make sure, the diet includes high protein, salads, lots of vegetables. 
Such a balanced diet will keep us fit and energetic to manage multitasking.
